Explanation added for Multiples of 2019 Atcoder (#2688)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/ac-MultipleOf2019.mdx

id: ac-MultipleOf2019
source: AtCoder Beginner Contest
title: Multiple of 2019
author: Maggie Liu, Brad Ma, Mohammad Nour Massri, David Zhang
---

[Official Analysis](https://img.atcoder.jp/abc164/editorial.pdf#page=10)

## Explanation
First of all, in order to store sections of the string, we can make a suffix array with the condition that at index $$i$$ in suffix array $${S}$$

$${S_i = s_n + 10*s_{n-1} +100*s_{n-2} + ... + {10^{n-i}} * s_{i}}$$

For example, in the string "1234", the suffix array would be

> [1234, 234, 34, 4]

Reviewer: use latex or md code or smth

Author: $$[1234, 234, 34, 4]$$ is this what you mean?

Reviewer: tbh i'd prefer
```py
[1234, 234, 34, 4]
```

> This is useful because we can query any substring in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time. So if $${S_0} = 1234 $$ and $${S_3=4}$$, this means $${S_0}-{S_3} = 123 * {10^1}$$ or $$1230$$. 

Reviewer: what's a "query"?

Author: range query, so S_i - S_j will allow us to get a number from a certain substring

Reviewer: > don't explain it to me, explain it to the users lol

Author: ofc

> It also means that if both $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)=$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)$$, subtracting would lead to $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)-$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)=0$$, meaning a substring that makes a number that is divisible by $$M$$ or $$2019$$. 

Reviewer: perhaps continue the 1234 example you provided here

Author: np

So then we can use $${N \choose K}$$ choose formula, and choose 2 numbers $$(2)$$ that are divisible by the same reminder of 2019 $$(N)$$. 

> We can then store all the counts of all the remainders from $$0...2018$$. Then, we can add all $${N \choose 2}$$ and that is our answer. 

Reviewer: and here

Author: cooll

id: ac-MultipleOf2019
source: AtCoder Beginner Contest
title: Multiple of 2019
author: Maggie Liu, Brad Ma, Mohammad Nour Massri, David Zhang
---

[Official Analysis](https://img.atcoder.jp/abc164/editorial.pdf#page=10)

## Explanation

> Firstly, in order to store sections of the string, we can make a suffix array with the condition that at index $$i$$ in suffix array $${S}$$

Reviewer: > Firstly

isn't a word

Author: First of all,

$${S_i = s_n + 10*s_{n-1} +100*s_{n-2} + ... + {10^{n-i}} * s_{i}}$$

> For example, in the string "1234," the suffix array would be

Reviewer 2: is the comma supposed to be in the quotes?

Author: no lol

[1234, 234, 34, 4]

> This is useful because in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time, when we use a range query, we can capture any substring with just two indices $$i$$ and $$j$$. So if $${S_0} = 1234 $$ and $${S_3=4}$$, this means $${S_0}-{S_3} = 123 * {10^1}$$ or $$1230$$. 

Reviewer: > capture any substring

?

Author: access any substring

> This is useful because in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time, when we use a range query, we can capture any substring with just two indices $$i$$ and $$j$$. So if $${S_0} = 1234 $$ and $${S_3=4}$$, this means $${S_0}-{S_3} = 123 * {10^1}$$ or $$1230$$. 

Reviewer 2: (optional)
hmmm some parts seem redundant, maybe just:
> this is useful because we can query a range in o(1) time. [show example]

Author: ok

It also means that if both $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)=$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)$$, subtracting would lead to $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)-$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)=0$$, meaning a substring that makes a number that is divisible by $$M$$ or $$2019$$. 

> So then we can use $${N \choose K}$$ choose formula, and choose 2 numbers $$(2)$$ that are divisible by the same reminder of 2019 $$(N)$$. 

Reviewer: ?

Author: got it

Reviewer: still, what does this mean

Author: If two numbers have that same modulus, like for example 5 (mod 3) and 2(mod 3), subtracting them would equal to a number divisible by the mod or 3. 5-2=3 which is divisible by 3. Same idea here. We can make any number just using two prefixes. And if two prefixes both have the same modulus, then subtracting them from each other should make a number divisible by the mod.

Reviewer: don't explain it to me, explain it to the users lol

Author: np, doing that rn

We can then store all the counts of all the remainders from $$0...2018$$. Then, we can add all $${N \choose 2}$$ and that is our answer. 

(Note: A prefix array can be utilized as well, but a suffix array is easier to implement)

> [Errichto Explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=83yW2Pp6HMk)

Reviewer: use a youtube link

```html
<Youtube id="what ever the id is" />
```

id: ac-MultipleOf2019
source: AtCoder Beginner Contest
title: Multiple of 2019
author: Maggie Liu, Brad Ma, Mohammad Nour Massri, David Zhang
---

[Official Analysis](https://img.atcoder.jp/abc164/editorial.pdf#page=10)

## Explanation
In order to store sections of the string, we can make a suffix array $S$, such that:

$${S_i = s_n + 10*s_{n-1} +100*s_{n-2} + ... + {10^{n-i}} * s_{i}}$$

> For example, in the string $$1234$$ and the modulus of $$3$$, the suffix array would be

Reviewer: > modulus of $$3$$

?

Author: What I mean is, 1234 is the string, 3 is the modulus

> For example, if our string was $$1234$$ and the modulus was $$3$$, the suffix array would be

Reviewer: > modulus was $$3$$

? i thought the mod was 2019?

Author: earlier, in the example, I used 3 instead of 2019

Reviewer 2: yeah, just keep it to 2019, it's less confusing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if our string was $$1234$$ and the modulus was $$3$$ (instead of $$2019$$), the suffix array would be
```
just for clarification

$$[1234, 234, 34, 4, 0]$$

**Keep in mind, that an empty suffix with is also considered.**

This is useful because we can access any substring in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time through a range query. So if $${S_0} = 1234 $$ and $${S_3=4}$$, this means $${S_0}-{S_3} = 123 * {10^1}$$ or $$1230$$. 

It also means that if both $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)=$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)$$ (both suffixes have the same remainders), subtracting would lead to $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)-$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)=0$$, meaning a substring that is divisible by $$2019$$. 

So with $$1234$$, $${S_0-{S_3}=1234(mod}$$ $$3)-4(mod$$ $$3)=1-1=0$$. Because they substract to zero, it means the substring from index $$0$$ to $$2$$ leads to a number divisible by the modulus. (The substring is $$123$$ which is divisble by 3). 

However, we would still need to go through every pair of possible suffixes $(i, j)$.

> However, note that **we do not need to know the specific indicies- we just need to know the amount of times a certain remainder occurs.** 

Reviewer: why?

Author: We account for this (explained later), by storing the counts of each remainder. The importance isn't about where the indices are, but how many occur.

Reviewer: definitely explain why here tho

> Thus, we can take $${N \choose K}$$, and choose 2 numbers that are divisible by the same remainder of 2019, where $$N=$$ the amount of times a certain remainder occurs, and $$K=$$ 2 (because we are picking 2 indicies $$i$$ and $$j$$). 

Reviewer: again, what does "take n c k" mean exactly?

Author: N choose K, N is the amount of times a certain remainder occurs, 
K is just picking the two indices

> We can then store all the counts of all the remainders in an array from $$0...2018$$. Then, we can add $${N \choose 2}$$ and that is our answer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, our answer is the counts of all the remainders in an array from $$0...2018$$ and $${N \choose 2}$$. 
```
(optional)

So in our example with $$1234$$, our new array would look like this:

$$[2, 3, 0]$$

Where each index represents the count of a certain remainder. 
* There are $$2$$ suffixes with a remainder of $$0$$ when dividing by $$3$$, $$[234, 0]$$
* There are $$3$$ suffixes with a remainder of $$1$$ when dividing by $$3$$, $$[1234, 34, 4]$$
* And there are no suffixes with a remainder of $$2$$

So, the sum of all of these numbers would be $${2 \choose 2} + {3 \choose 2}=1+3=4$$ 

> (If $$N<K$$ then, it should be $$0$$, not $$1$$ since there are not enough suffixes that can make a pair.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If $$N<K$$, it should be $$0$$, since there aren't enough suffixes that can make a pair.
```

> Note: A prefix array can be utilized as well, but a suffix array is easier to implement.

Reviewer 2: info block ^^

> Errichto's Video

Reviewer 2: make this a subheading

> <Youtube id="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=83yW2Pp6HMk" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Youtube id="83yW2Pp6HMk" />
```

Author: ahhh that makes more sense

id: ac-MultipleOf2019
source: AtCoder Beginner Contest
title: Multiple of 2019
author: Maggie Liu, Brad Ma, Mohammad Nour Massri, David Zhang
---

[Official Analysis](https://img.atcoder.jp/abc164/editorial.pdf#page=10)

## Explanation

> First of all, in order to store sections of the string, we can make a suffix array with the condition that at index $$i$$ in suffix array $${S}$$

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to store sections of the string, we can make a suffix array $S$, such that:
```

$${S_i = s_n + 10*s_{n-1} +100*s_{n-2} + ... + {10^{n-i}} * s_{i}}$$

For example, in the string $$1234$$ and the modulus of $$3$$, the suffix array would be

$$[1234, 234, 34, 4, 0]$$

**Keep in mind, that an empty suffix with is also considered.**

This is useful because we can access any substring in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time through a range query. So if $${S_0} = 1234 $$ and $${S_3=4}$$, this means $${S_0}-{S_3} = 123 * {10^1}$$ or $$1230$$. 

> It also means that if both $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)=$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)$$ (both suffixes have the same remainders), subtracting would lead to $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)-$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)=0$$, meaning a substring that makes a number that is divisible by $$M$$ or $$2019$$. 

Reviewer 2: huh?

> meaning a substring that makes a number that is divisible by M or 2019. 
---
> subtracting would lead to $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)-$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)=0$$

better as `subtracting them`

Author: plz check clarity

Reviewer 2: yep! looks good, thanks!

> So with $$1234$$, $${S_0-{S_3}=1234(mod}$$ $$3)-4(mod$$ $$3)=1-1=0$$. Because they substract to zero, it means the substring from index $$0$$ to $$3$$ ($$3$$ is exclusive) leads to a number divisible by the modulus. (The substring is "$$123$$" which is divisble by 3). 

Reviewer 2: just change it to `index 0 to 2`?

Reviewer 2: also the quotes for the substring 123 part is unnecessary

Author: wdym index 0 to 2?

Author: oh the exclusive part, yeah def 0-2

Author: deleted exclusive and 0-2

However, we would still need to go through every pair of possible suffixes (i, j). 

To take it one step further, **we do not need to know the specific indicies, we just need to know the amount of times a certain remainder occurs.** 

> Thus, we can use take the binomial coefficient $${N \choose K}$$, and choose 2 numbers that are divisible by the same reminder of 2019, where $$N=$$ the amount of times a certain remainder occurs, and $$K=$$ 2 (because we are picking 2 indicies $$i$$ and $$j$$). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thus, we can take $${N \choose K}$$, and choose 2 numbers that are divisible by the same reminder of 2019, where $$N=$$ the amount of times a certain remainder occurs, and $$K=$$ 2 (because we are picking 2 indicies $$i$$ and $$j$$). 
```

We can then store all the counts of all the remainders in an array from $$0...2018$$. Then, we can add all $${N \choose 2}$$ and that is our answer. 

So in our example with $$1234$$, our new array would look like this:

$$[2, 3, 0]$$

Where each index represents the count of a certain remainder. 

> * There is $$1$$ suffixes with a remainder of $$0$$ when dividing by $$3$$, $$[234, 0]$$

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There is $$1$$ suffix with a remainder of $$0$$ when dividing by $$3$$, $$[234, 0]$$
```

Author: I'll correct the grammar manually

Author: fixed

> * There is $$3$$ suffixes with a remainder of $$1$$ when dividing by 3, $$[1234, 34, 4]$$

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There are $$3$$ suffixes with a remainder of $$1$$ when dividing by 3, $$[1234, 34, 4]$$
```

Author: fixed

* And there are no suffixes with a remainder of 2

So, the sum of all of these numbers would be $${2 \choose 2} + {3 \choose 2}=1+3=4$$ 

(If $$N<K$$ then, it should be $$0$$, not $$1$$ since there are not enough suffixes that can make a pair)

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

For example, in the string $$1234$$ and the modulus of $$3$$, the suffix array would be

$$[1234, 234, 34, 4, 0]$$

**Keep in mind, that an empty suffix with is also considered.**

This is useful because we can access any substring in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time through a range query. So if $${S_0} = 1234 $$ and $${S_3=4}$$, this means $${S_0}-{S_3} = 123 * {10^1}$$ or $$1230$$. 

It also means that if both $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)=$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)$$ (both suffixes have the same remainders), subtracting would lead to $${S_0}(mod$$ $$M)-$$ $${S_3}(mod$$ $$M)=0$$, meaning a substring that makes a number that is divisible by $$M$$ or $$2019$$. 

So with $$1234$$, $${S_0-{S_3}=1234(mod}$$ $$3)-4(mod$$ $$3)=1-1=0$$. Because they substract to zero, it means the substring from index $$0$$ to $$3$$ ($$3$$ is exclusive) leads to a number divisible by the modulus. (The substring is "$$123$$" which is divisble by 3). 

However, we would still need to go through every pair of possible suffixes (i, j). 

To take it one step further, **we do not need to know the specific indicies, we just need to know the amount of times a certain remainder occurs.** 

> Thus, we can use $${N \choose K}$$ formula, and choose 2 numbers that are divisible by the same reminder of 2019, where $$N=$$ the amount of times a certain remainder occurs, and $$K=$$ 2 (because we are picking 2 indicies $$i$$ and $$j$$). 

Reviewer: > Thus, we can use $${N \choose K}$$ formula

again, what

Author: I mean this -> nCk=n!/(k!(n-k)!)

Does it sound awkward?

Reviewer 2: yeah, uh... it's not a formula, is it?

Author: I see, I'll change that

Author: changed

We can then store all the counts of all the remainders in an array from $$0...2018$$. Then, we can add all $${N \choose 2}$$ and that is our answer. 

> So in our example, our array would look like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So in our example with $$1234$$, our new array would look like this:
```
